# Ortenzo-portfolio
Visual story-telling with a kick
I have a passion for helping people to understand complex, challenging ideas through engaging and accessible experiences. That led me to a 23-year career at Carnegie Science Center, one of the four Carnegie Musuems of Pittsburgh. I was Director of STEM Programs for the last 15 years. In that role, I led a team who developed and implemented programs and competitions that served 10,000+ middle and high school students each year. They continue today. The experiences are designed to inspire students to explore STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) topics and careers. Students do hands-on activies or major projects and interact with leading professionals in these fields. Throughout my career, I loved the mix of creative and strategic work and the opportunity to have a real impact on students' lives. I also enjoyed serving in senior leadership of the Science Center. 

For several years, and especially after the 2016 election, I felt a growing need to use my skills in informal education to help bridge our politically polarized nation through informed, civic engagement and media literacy. That led me to the Master of Public Management Program at the Heinz College. I wanted to expand my skills in policy and quantative analysis, then create exciting, effective experiences to help voters to do the same. Ultimately, my goal is to help us to become a more skilled and savvy electorate and a more civil society. Honing my data visualization skills is part of that effort. That's why I'm taking this class. In my experience, and in research by the National Science Foundation and other organizations, Americans don't understand statistics. Data can be easily manipulated to mislead those who aren't equipped to challenge them. Clear, compelling data visualizations can communicate and educate in ways that will make us smarter collectively. That is my mission.    
